`ibm_integration_bus` Cookbook
==========================
[IBM Integration Bus](http://www-03.ibm.com/software/products/us/en/integration-bus/), previously known as WebSphere Message Broker, is an enterprise service bus (ESB) providing connectivity and universal data transformation for service-oriented architecture (SOA) and non-SOA environments. Businesses of any size can eliminate point-to-point connections and batch processing regardless of platform, protocol, or data format.


You can find more information about using IBM Integration Bus from the [IBM Integration Bus Version 9.0 Information Center](http://pic.dhe.ibm.com/infocenter/wmbhelp/v9r0m0/index.jsp).


Use this cookbook to install and configure all of the components that you need to start developing applications with [IBM Integration Bus](http://www-03.ibm.com/software/products/us/en/integration-bus/), including:


* IBM Integration Bus runtime component
* IBM Integration Bus Toolkit
* IBM Integration Bus Explorer  
* All product prerequisites, including WebSphere MQ Version 7.5.0.1  

The cookbook also creates a user account to manage the components, and creates and configures all the components that are required for a running Integration Bus instance.

For answers to questions about this cookbook, see the provided [FAQ](./FAQ.md).


Requirements
------------
To use this cookbook, you must download the single package image for IBM Integration Bus and store it on an FTP server, HTTP server or local file system that is accessible by the computer that is running the Chef client.

IBM Integration Bus for Developers is a full-function version of the product, which you can use for 
evaluative purposes. You can [download](https://www14.software.ibm.com/webapp/iwm/web/signup.do?source=swg-wmbfd&S_TACT=109KA7GW&S_CMP=web_opp_ibm_ws_appint_integrationbus&lang=en_US&S_PKG=dk) this version at no charge and you are free to use it for as long as you require, within the terms of the license. 

 
## Chef

* Chef: 11.8.0 +

## Cookbooks
No other cookbooks are required by this cookbook. The IBM WebSphere MQ product is installed as part of both the default and runtime recipes.


## Platforms

The cookbook currently supports:

* Ubuntu 12.04 LTS x86-64
* Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) Server 6 x86-64

It is recommended that this cookbook is run only on systems that do not have any other versions of IBM WebSphere MQ or IBM Integration Bus installed.

Attributes
----------
#### ibmintegrationbus::default
<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Key</th>
    <th>Type</th>
    <th>Description</th>
    <th>Default</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><tt>['ibm_integration_bus']['package_site_url']</tt></td>
    <td>String</td>
    <td>URL of an FTP server, HTTP server, or file system that contains the install package.</td>
    <td><tt>nil</tt></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><tt>['ibm_integration_bus']['package_name']</tt></td>
    <td>String</td>
    <td>Name of the install package on the URL site.</td>
    <td><tt>9.0.0-IIB-LINUXX64-DEVELOPER.tar.gz</tt></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><tt>['ibm_integration_bus']['account_username']</tt></td>
    <td>String</td>
    <td>Name of the user account to set up for use with the installed components. If the account does not exist, it is created.</td>
    <td><tt>iibuser</tt></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><tt>['ibm_integration_bus']['account_password']</tt></td>
    <td>String</td>
    <td>A shallow hash of the password to use for account_username. Use a command such as openssl passwd -1 "actual_password" to generate the hashed password. If this attribute is not set, the user account is created without a password.</td>
    <td><tt>nil</tt></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><tt>['ibm_integration_bus']['iib_nodes']</tt></td>
    <td>Array</td>
    <td>A list of the names of iibnode databags to use for setting up IIB integration nodes on the machine. If the attribute is omitted, then a default integration node is created called IB9NODE. An empty list of iibnode databags will result in no components being created.</td>
    <td><tt>nil</tt></td>
  </tr>
</table>
See [iibnode data bags](./DATABAGS.md) for details on how to create databags with definitions of node properties.

Usage
-----
Include `ibm_integration_bus` in your integration node's `run_list` to install and configure all IBM Integration Bus components. The `package_site_url` attribute must be set to the location of the downloaded Developer Edition installation package. [Download](https://www14.software.ibm.com/webapp/iwm/web/signup.do?source=swg-wmbfd&S_TACT=109KA7GW&S_CMP=web_opp_ibm_ws_appint_integrationbus&lang=en_US&S_PKG=dk) this package and put it onto an FTP or HTTP site that is accessible by the Chef client that is running the recipes. The `package_site_url` points to the directory containing the install package and the full URL is generated by appending `package_site_url` and `package_name` together. For example: if `package_site_url` is `ftp://company_ftp_site.com/iib_packages` and  `package_name` is left to the default value of `9.0.0-IIB-LINUXX64-DEVELOPER.tar.gz` then the URL used is `ftp://company_ftp_site.com/iib_packages/9.0.0-IIB-LINUXX64-DEVELOPER.tar.gz`.


To install the full IBM Integration Bus:

```json
{
  "name": "Full_install",
  "description": "",
  "json_class": "Chef::Role",
  "default_attributes": {
  },
  "override_attributes": {
    "ibm_integration_bus": {
      "package_site_url": "ftp://company_ftp_site.com/iib_packages"
    }
  },
  "chef_type": "role",
  "run_list": [
    "recipe[ibm_integration_bus]"
  ],
  "env_run_lists": {
  }
}
```


To install all components except the toolkit component, select the runtime recipe:
 
```json
{
  "name": "No_toolkit",
  "description": "",
  "json_class": "Chef::Role",
  "default_attributes": {
  },
  "override_attributes": {
    "ibm_integration_bus": {
      "package_site_url": "ftp://company_ftp_site.com/iib_packages"
    }
  },
  "chef_type": "role",
  "run_list": [
    "recipe[ibm_integration_bus::runtime]"
  ],
  "env_run_lists": {
  }
}
```

To set up a password for the created user account:
```json
{
  "name": "Account_Password",
  "description": "",
  "json_class": "Chef::Role",
  "default_attributes": {
  },
  "override_attributes": {
    "ibm_integration_bus": {
      "package_site_url": "ftp://company_ftp_site.com/iib_packages",
      "account_username": "aUser",
      "account_password": "$1$GjlS21O/$cCVKEGE/qg4jjt.sJuwVK0"
    }
  },
  "chef_type": "role",
  "run_list": [
    "recipe[ibm_integration_bus]"
  ],
  "env_run_lists": {
  }
}
```

To specify a list of integration nodes to create based on their [iibnode data bags](./DATABAGS.md) names:
```json
{
  "name": "Account_Password",
  "description": "",
  "json_class": "Chef::Role",
  "default_attributes": {
  },
  "override_attributes": {
    "ibm_integration_bus": {
      "package_site_url": "ftp://company_ftp_site.com/iib_packages",
      "account_username": "aUser",
      "account_password": "$1$GjlS21O/$cCVKEGE/qg4jjt.sJuwVK0",
      "iib_nodes": ["default_iibnode_databag"]
    }
  },
  "chef_type": "role",
  "run_list": [
    "recipe[ibm_integration_bus]"
  ],
  "env_run_lists": {
  }
}
```

Developing
----------
If you're interested in contributing to this project, please contact the authors.

Testing
----------
The cookbook provides [support for test](./TESTING.md) using Test Kitchen.

License and Authors
-------------------
Copyright 2013 IBM Corp. under the [Eclipse Public license](http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html).

* Author:: John Reeve <jreeve@uk.ibm.com>
* Author:: Imran Shakir <SHAKIMRA@uk.ibm.com>
* Author:: Simon Holdsworth Simon_Holdsworth@uk.ibm.com
* Author:: Stephanie Strugnell stephanie_strugnell@uk.ibm.com
* Author:: Charlotte Nash charshy_nash@uk.ibm.com


